.TH FARADAY 1 "2024" "Faraday CLI 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
faraday \- command-line interface for the Personal Semantic Engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B faraday
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Faraday is a command-line interface for managing thoughts, performing semantic searches, and analyzing your personal knowledge base. It provides both interactive and command-line modes for efficient thought capture and retrieval.

When run without arguments, Faraday automatically starts in interactive mode for a conversational experience.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Use custom configuration file instead of the default platform-specific location.
.TP
.BR \-\-api\-url " " \fIURL\fR
Override the API server URL from configuration.
.TP
.BR \-\-json
Output results in JSON format for scripting and automation.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose ", " \-v
Enable verbose output for debugging and detailed information.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-interactive
Disable automatic interactive mode when no command is given.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show help message and exit.

.SH COMMANDS
.SS Authentication Commands (auth)
.TP
.B faraday auth login
Login to your Faraday server with email and password.
.TP
.B faraday auth logout
Logout and clear stored authentication tokens.
.TP
.B faraday auth status
Show current authentication status and token information.

.SS Configuration Commands (config)
.TP
.B faraday config show
Display all configuration settings in a readable format.
.TP
.B faraday config get \fIKEY\fR
Get the value of a specific configuration key.
.TP
.B faraday config set \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR
Set a configuration key to the specified value.
.TP
.B faraday config reset
Reset all configuration to default values (requires confirmation).
.TP
.B faraday config path
Show the path to the configuration file.

.SS Thought Management Commands (thoughts)
.TP
.B faraday thoughts add \fICONTENT\fR
Add a new thought with the specified content.
.TP
.B faraday thoughts list
List recent thoughts with basic information.
.TP
.B faraday thoughts show \fIID\fR
Show detailed information about a specific thought by ID.
.TP
.B faraday thoughts delete \fIID\fR
Delete a thought by ID (requires confirmation).

.SS Search Commands
.TP
.B faraday search \fIQUERY\fR
Search thoughts using natural language semantic search.

.SS Synchronization Commands (sync)
.TP
.B faraday sync
Synchronize local cache with the server.

.SS Help Commands (help)
.TP
.B faraday help guide [\fITOPIC\fR]
Show detailed help guides for specific topics.
.TP
.B faraday help tutorial
Start an interactive tutorial for new users.
.TP
.B faraday help shortcuts
Show keyboard shortcuts and quick commands.
.TP
.B faraday help workflows
Show common workflows and usage patterns.

.SS Other Commands
.TP
.B faraday interactive
Explicitly start interactive mode.
.TP
.B faraday version
Show version information.

.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
Interactive mode provides a conversational interface for daily Faraday usage. It starts automatically when you run \fBfaraday\fR without arguments in a terminal.

.SS Interactive Commands
.TP
.B add: \fICONTENT\fR
Add a thought using natural syntax.
.TP
.B search: \fIQUERY\fR
Search thoughts using natural syntax.
.TP
.B list [\fIN\fR]
List recent thoughts (default: 10).
.TP
.B show \fIID\fR
Show thought details.
.TP
.B delete \fIID\fR
Delete a thought.
.TP
.B help [\fICOMMAND\fR]
Show help (general or for specific command).
.TP
.B tutorial
Start interactive tutorial.
.TP
.B tips
Show usage tips.
.TP
.B exit, quit
Exit interactive mode.

.SS Interactive Shortcuts
.TP
.B h
help
.TP
.B q
quit
.TP
.B ls
list
.TP
.B rm
delete
.TP
.B ?
help

.SH CONFIGURATION
Faraday uses TOML configuration files stored in platform-specific locations:
.TP
.B Linux/Unix
~/.config/faraday/config.toml
.TP
.B macOS
~/Library/Application Support/faraday/config.toml
.TP
.B Windows
%APPDATA%\\faraday\\config.toml

.SS Configuration Keys
.TP
.B api.url
Faraday server URL (default: http://localhost:8001)
.TP
.B api.timeout
Request timeout in seconds (default: 30)
.TP
.B auth.auto_login
Automatically login when needed (default: true)
.TP
.B auth.remember_token
Remember authentication tokens (default: true)
.TP
.B output.colors
Enable colored output (default: true)
.TP
.B output.max_results
Maximum results in lists (default: 20)
.TP
.B cache.enabled
Enable local caching (default: true)
.TP
.B cache.max_size_mb
Maximum cache size in MB (default: 100)

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS First-time Setup
.nf
faraday config set api.url http://localhost:8001
faraday auth login
.fi

.SS Daily Usage
.nf
# Interactive mode
faraday
faraday> add: Had a great meeting today
faraday> search: coffee meetings
faraday> exit

# Command-line mode
faraday thoughts add "Quick thought"
faraday search "important insights" --limit 5
faraday thoughts list
.fi

.SS Scripting
.nf
# JSON output for processing
faraday --json thoughts list | jq '.thoughts[].content'

# Batch operations
faraday --json search "AI" | jq '.results[] | select(.score > 0.8)'
.fi

.SS Configuration Management
.nf
faraday config show
faraday config set output.colors false
faraday config get api.url
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B FARADAY_API_URL
Override the default API URL.
.TP
.B FARADAY_CONFIG
Override the default configuration file path.
.TP
.B FARADAY_NO_INTERACTIVE
Disable automatic interactive mode (set to any value).

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/faraday/config.toml
Default configuration file (Linux/Unix).
.TP
.I ~/.config/faraday/cache/
Local cache directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/faraday/auth/
Authentication token storage.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (authentication, network, validation, etc.)
.TP
.B 2
Command-line usage error

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the project repository or issue tracker.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jq (1),
.BR curl (1)

For comprehensive documentation, see:
.TP
.B faraday help guide
Complete help system
.TP
.B faraday help tutorial
Interactive tutorial
.TP
Online documentation at the project repository

.SH AUTHOR
Faraday CLI is part of the Personal Semantic Engine project.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.